MTA-3245: Document disconnected usage of MTA CLI (#29)
migtools/mta-documentation: docs/topics/installing-mta-disconnected-environment.adoc

// Module included in the following assemblies:
//
// * docs/cli-guide/master.adoc

:_content-type: PROCEDURE
[id="installing-mta-disconnected-environment_{context}"]
= Installing {ProductShortName} on a disconnected environment

> On a connected device, first download and save the {ProductShortName} binary. Then download and save the Podman images, the {ProductShortName} Podman image and the provider image that you need.

Reviewer: typo: `the {ProductShortName} CLI image and the provider image that you need`

> On a connected device, first download and save the {ProductShortName} binary. Then download and save the Podman images, the {ProductShortName} Podman image and the provider image that you need.

Author: ```suggestion
On a connected device, first download and save the {ProductShortName} binary. Then download and save the Podman images, the {ProductShortName} CLI image and the provider image that you need.
```

> On a connected device, first download and save the {ProductShortName} binary. Then download and save the Podman images and the {ProductShortName} Podman image and the  provider image that you need.

Author: ```suggestion
On a connected device, first download and save the {ProductShortName} binary. Then download and save the Podman images, the {ProductShortName} Podman image and the provider image that you need.
```

> On a connected device, first download and save the {ProductShortName} binary. Then download and save the Podman images required, you require the {ProductShortName} Podman image and the required provider image, you require.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
On a connected device, first download and save the {ProductShortName} binary. Then download and save the requisite Podman images.
```

This reads very confusing to me with all the "require".  It's not immediately clear to me the intention, but perhaps this suggestion may be used as inspiration.

What is meant by " _which include {ProductShortName} Podman image and the required provider image, you require_ "?  ProductShortName expands to "MTA", should this be directing to include the MTA CLI image?  

Perhaps instead of " _the required provider image, you require_  " , something like "the desired provider images"?

> On a connected device, first download and save the {ProductShortName} binary. Then download and save the Podman images required, you require the {ProductShortName} Podman image and the required provider image, you require.

Author: ```suggestion
On a connected device, first download and save the {ProductShortName} binary. Then download and save the Podman images required, you require the {ProductShortName} Podman image and the  provider image that you need.
```

> * Download the required {ProductShortName} binary from the link:https://developers.redhat.com/products/mta/download[customer portal]:

Author: ```suggestion
* Download the required {ProductShortName} CLI binary from the link:https://developers.redhat.com/products/mta/download[{ProductName} Red Hat Developer page]:
```

> * Download the required {ProductShortName} CLI binary from the link:https://developers.redhat.com/products/mta/download[{ProductName} Red Hat Developer page]:

Reviewer: missing a space after the colon

Author: It looks like it renders ok

![image](https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/fa65554e-1ef4-4094-afbc-1df99ba65284)

> ** CLI for Linux aarch64

Author: ```suggestion
** CLI for Linux x86_64 
** CLI for Linux aarch64
```

** CLI for MacOS x86_64
** CLI for MacOS aarch64
** CLI for Windows x86_64

> ** CLI for Windows aarch64

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* Download the required {ProductShortName} binary from the link:https://developers.redhat.com/products/mta/download[customer portal]:
** CLI for Linux x86_64
** CLI for Linux aarch64
** CLI for MacOS x86_64
** CLI for MacOS aarch64
** CLI for Windows x86_64
** CLI for Windows aarch64
```
Missing Linux x86_64

> * Download the required {ProductShortName} CLI binary from the link:https://developers.redhat.com/products/mta/download[{ProductName} Red Hat Developer page]:
> ** CLI for Linux aarch64
> ** CLI for MacOS x86_64
> ** CLI for MacOS aarch64
> ** CLI for Windows x86_64
> ** CLI for Windows aarch64

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* Download the required {ProductShortName} CLI binary from the link:https://developers.redhat.com/products/mta/download[{ProductName} Red Hat Developer page]:
** CLI for Linux x86_64
** CLI for Linux aarch64
** CLI for MacOS x86_64
** CLI for MacOS aarch64
** CLI for Windows x86_64
** CLI for Windows aarch64
```

Missing Linux x86_64

* On a connected device, download and save the images.

* Copy the binary to the disconnected device.

> * In addition, you need to save and import the associated container images by using Podman.

Author: ```suggestion
* In addition, you must save and import the associated container images by using Podman.
```

> In addition, you need to save and import the associated container images by using Podman.

Author: ```suggestion
* In addition, you need to save and import the associated container images by using Podman.
```

> * On a connected device, download and save the images.
> 
> * Copy the binary to the disconnected device.
> 
> In addition, you need to save and import the associated container images by using Podman.
> 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* On a connected device, download and save the images.

* Copy the binary to the disconnected device.

* In addition, you need to save and import the associated container images by using Podman.

```

Should the "In addition..." line be a bullet? or sub-point to "Copy the binary"?

== Downloading the Podman images

.Prerequisites

* Podman installed. For more information, see link:https://podman.io/[Podman].

.Procedure

. Use Podman to authenticate to link:registry.redhat.io[registry.redhat.io]:
+
[source,terminal]
----
$ podman login registry.redhat.io
----

. Enter your username and then your password for registry.redhat.io:
+
[source,terminal]
----
Username: <registry_service_account_username>
Password: <registry_service_account_password>
----
+
You should see the following output:
+
[source,terminal]
----
Login Succeeded!
----

. Use Podman to pull the image from the registry:
+
[source,terminal]
----

> $ podman pull registry.redhat.io/mta/mta-rhel9-operator:7.1.0

Reviewer 2: @ibragins , is operator correct here or should this be mta-cli image?

Reviewer 2: @anarnold97 , from Dylan's [comment](https://issues.redhat.com/browse/MTA-3245?focusedId=25265800&page=com.atlassian.jira.plugin.system.issuetabpanels:comment-tabpanel#comment-25265800) on MTA-3245, this should be mta-cli.

```suggestion
$ podman pull registry.redhat.io/mta/mta-cli-rhel9:7.1.0
```

. Use Podman to pull the required provider image that you need from the
registry:

.. For Java, run:
+
[source,terminal]
----
$ podman pull registry.redhat.io/mta/mta-java-external-provider-rhel9:7.1.0
----
.. For .NET, run:
+
[source,terminal]
----

> $ podman pull registry.redhat.io/mta/mta-dotnet-external-provider-rhel9

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
$ podman pull registry.redhat.io/mta/mta-dotnet-external-provider-rhel9:7.1.0
```
Add `7.1.0` tag to pullspec for consistency

----

. Save the images:
+
[source,terminal]
----
$ podman save <image> -o <my_image.image>
----

> . Copy the `+.image+` file and the binary onto a USB or directly to the file system of the disconnected device.

Author: ```suggestion
. Copy the `.image` file and the binary onto a USB or directly to the file system of the disconnected device.
```

. On the disconnected device, run
+
[source,terminal]
----

> $ podman load --input my_image.image

Author: ```suggestion
$ podman load --input <my_image.image>
```

** CLI for Linux x86_64 
** CLI for Linux aarch64
** CLI for MacOS x86_64
** CLI for MacOS aarch64
** CLI for Windows x86_64
** CLI for Windows aarch64

* On a connected device, download and save the images.

* Copy the binary to the disconnected device.

* In addition, you must save and import the associated container images by using Podman.

== Downloading the Podman images

.Prerequisites

* Podman installed. For more information, see link:https://podman.io/[Podman].

.Procedure

. Use Podman to authenticate to link:registry.redhat.io[registry.redhat.io]:
+
[source,terminal]
----
$ podman login registry.redhat.io
----

. Enter your username and then your password for registry.redhat.io:
+
[source,terminal]
----
Username: <registry_service_account_username>
Password: <registry_service_account_password>
----
+
You should see the following output:
+
[source,terminal]
----
Login Succeeded!
----

. Use Podman to pull the image from the registry:
+
[source,terminal]
----
$ podman pull registry.redhat.io/mta/mta-rhel9-operator:7.1.0
----

. Use Podman to pull the provider image that you need from the registry:

> registry:

Author: ```suggestion
```

== Downloading the Podman images

.Prerequisites

* Podman is installed. For more information, see
link:https://podman.io/[Podman].

.Procedure

. Use Podman to authenticate to
link:registry.redhat.io[registry.redhat.io]:

[source,terminal]
----
$ podman login registry.redhat.io
----

. Enter your username and then your password for registry.redhat.io:

[source,terminal]
----
Username: <registry-service-account-username>
Password: <registry-service-account-password>
----

* You should see the following output:

[source,terminal]
----
Login Succeeded!
----

. Use podman to pull the image from the registry:

[source,terminal]
----
$ podman pull registry.redhat.io/mta/mta-rhel9-operator:7.1.0
----

. Use podman to pull the respective provider image that you need from the
registry:

.. For Java, run: +

[source,terminal]
----
$ podman pull registry.redhat.io/mta/mta-java-external-provider-rhel9:7.1.0
----

.. For .NET, run: +

[source,terminal]
----
$ podman pull registry.redhat.io/mta/mta-dotnet-external-provider-rhel9
----

. Save the images:

[source,terminal]
----
$ podman save <image> -o <my_image.image>
----

> . Copy the `+.image+` file onto a USB or directly to the file system of

Reviewer 3: Please mention that binary should be copied as well. Too many users that are doing ONLY what is written.
